# tsunami_methods
Methods for analyzing and visualizing statistical posterior distribution for Bayesian construction of historical earthquakes and tsunamis.

This repo contains the data for the constructed posterior distribution of the 1820 Sulawesi and 1852 Banda Sea earthquake based on historical accounts of the resultant tsunami.  The inversion process was carried out using a Bayesian reconstruction, relying on the Geoclaw software package as described in detail in Ringer et al 2021 and Paskett et al 2024.

The calculations and visualizations (including the necessary data) for the approximate Hessian near the MAP point are included in the Hessian_visualization directory.  Some lines of code may need to be adapted to account for local directories of the data relative to absolute directories.  An additional readme specific to these calculations is provided in this directory.

The other calculations which illustrate bounds on observables of the calculated posterior distributions, are carried out in the vizualizations directory under the notebooks Dupuis.ipynb and examine_1820_runs.ipynb  The required data is also contained in this same directory (again some lines of the code must be changed to account for local/relative versus absolute directory naming.  Keep in mind that Dupuis.ipynb performs the analysis on the 1852 event while the second half of the examine_1820_runs.ipynb notebook contains the same analysis for the 1820 event (both posterior distributions).  The first half of the examine_1820_runs.ipynb notebook reproduces the figures in the original paper of Paskett et al 2024 as well as several other illustrations of the data that did not go into the final production, and contains an analysis using standard classification schemes in an attempt to identify which fault (Walanae/Selayar or Flores) was the source of the event in question.  The computation and visualization of the bounds begins at the markdown cell that starts with "Now we want to look at the Dupuis stuff".
